meanwhile survivors of Israeli air
strikes near dear albala in central Gaza
being admitted to the AL AXA hospital
they were injured in the latest Israeli
bombardment of the al-ag magazi
neighborhood funeral prayers were held
for those who succumbed to their
injuries let's go to hanim Mahmud who Li
for us in Rafa in southern Gaza and Han
as we outline there the strikes continue
overnight and into this morning bring us
up today with the
[Music]
latest yes as we are back to uh our site
here we we got reports confirmed reports
of ongoing massive uh bombings going on
in the central area and as the Israeli
military and its uh tanks and army
vehicle are pushing deeper into the
Central Area particularly around uh zaa
area that's in the middle of the central
area in the Gaza Strip and what they
trying to do just carve a route from Za
area all the way to anat Refugee came a
densely populated area despite the large
number of people who have been
evacuating from the Central Area there
is still uh hundreds of thousands of
people in that area simply because they
don't have a place to go to and or they
came to a conclusion that there is no
safer Place uh in the G strip but in in
addition to the artillery shellings and
the the air strike there are attacking
drones hovering at a low level in the
disguise of the Central Area there are
confirmed reports of people arriving uh
to not to alaka hospital that's the only
remaining health facility semi
functional health facility in Dar bah
City where they were shot at by these
drone attacks there's signs of being
targeted through snipers as well
confirmed by alaka Hospital the the lat
this what we heard is just a person who
was called by his name to come out of
his house and just within meters away
from his house was targeted by these
attacking drones that fired at directly
at his head and killed him and when his
brother came out to check on him to see
what's going on with him he was shot at
and then his son came after and they
were he was killed uh right at the same
time they were shooting at other uh at
the other people but this is the the the
scene that is quite horrifying and when
when we talk to some of the people who
were who made it to RAF City and
described the horror from overnight and
and early hour of this morning as they
were trying to to leave the Central Area
describe it in one word it's hell on
Earth that's the common uh words that we
heard from a thousand of displac
Palestinians coming to uh to RAF City
and and Khan unit where most of the the
fighting is it's it's taking place the
Israeli military is pushing deeper into
kanun and now expanding its aerial
bombardment to Al AML District that's
the western side of kanun an area that
was described and designated as a safe
for people from Eastern kanun to
evacuate to and also houses the palestin
society and it's a charitable Health
Facilities hospital that came under
bombardment for the fourth time in less
than 10 days and what seems to be a
systematic attacks on remaining health
facilities in the city of Han unun the
scene and the reports we're getting from
the central area and and khun is are
very difficult to describe and and
people are are are are unable to
describe the horror they have
experienced uh within the past few days
but one one stable fact that we we know
so far thousand of people are fleeing uh
the the horror of this ongoing genocide
War okay hany such a difficult situation
such a difficult job that you were doing
we really appreciate you reporting hany
Mahmud there for us live in Rafa in
southern
Gaza meanwhile Israel's defense minister
YF Gallant has unveiled his proposal for
Gaza once the war is finished under the
plan Israel would have the right to
oversee security and conduct operations
inside the strip if necessary Israeli
settlers would not occupy the land local
Palestinians would have limited control
of Gaza except for those affiliated with
Hamas Gallant did not name specific
groups and a us-led multinational task
force including European and some Arab
countries will be involved in the
economic recovery in the strip Egypt
will control gaza's main civilian border
crossing in collaboration with Israel
and the United States let's speak to our
correspondent Laura Khan who's in
occupied East Jerusalem tell us a bit
more detail about y of galant's
proposals and what reaction there's been
to
it well this is the first official
proposal set out by a top uh minister in
Israel and essentially spells out a
four-pronged plan at the most important
aspect of it for them is that Hamas will
not rule the day after the war instead
there'll be a Palestinian entity this is
not going to be the pal ing in Authority
which is governing parts of the occupied
West Bank but it it does put many
stipulations there that this
International task force uh will come in
it will help uh rehabilitate and rebuild
the Gaza Strip bear in mind More than
70% of it has been completely destroyed
but it will also allow the Israeli
military to come in and raid as and when
it pleases a lot like it does in the
occupied West Bank and it wants to
maintain an airse and land and blockade
so the day after the war could look a
lot like the day before the war now it's
really important to mention this isn't
Israeli policy it's not come from any
cabinet this is just a proposed plan but
it was supposed to be discussed in a war
and wider security cabinet meeting
however ministers in that meeting
reported to the Press on condition of an
anonymity that it descended into chaos
now much of that was between the far
right camp and top Israeli military
brass mainly because they' planned a
probe into what happened on October 7th
why there was such a big security breach
in Israel but the people that uh the
chief of staff harzel Hy has put in
charge of the probe were also involved
in the 2005 disengagement from the Gaza
Strip they helped to pull the settlers
out of the Gaza Strip the far right were
very annoyed with that they said it
shouldn't be happening during the war
and started talking about disengagement
other hit others hit back and said this
has nothing to do with disengagement now
hle Hy has come forward with comments
today saying what he meant is it's a
probe into how the Army conducts itself
but there was a lot of criticism leveled
at this even being in the media um the
opposition in Israel said this shouldn't
have been leaked especially that it's a
security meeting and it's about the day
later um so I mean this has caused not
only criticism but chaos and disunity
inside the cabinet thank you for that
Laura Khan there us unoccupied East
Jerusalem now Israeli forces have
carried out air strikes in towns in
southern Lebanon the Army released this
video showing